# AGED

Dementia is a condition manifested through a cluster of symptoms targeting the highest functions of the brain: speech, memory, thinking, and judgement. A remedy for reversing or halting the progress of this syndrome remains a conundrum for medical science to this day. Efforts are currently being focused to understand its genetic manifestation at molecular level in order to find new targets for drugs. A clear understanding of the driving mechanism in dementia is yet to be formed, hence it is important to take measures to improve the state of dementia research. The present project aims to do this by creating an application for employment of data science techniques in clinical practice.

AGED represents a platform for Machine Learning analysis of gene expression data. The fundamental aim of the website is to allow clinicians to apply feature selection techniques on gene expression datasets, in order to find genes that are influential in differentiating between various pathology groups, such as disease against control. Furthermore, given clinicians’ lack of experience in data science, researchers would provide machine learning models through this platform to make the analysis possible. The system thus promotes a more fluent collaboration between researchers and clinicians, in view of exploiting their combined expertise to the full extent.

Testing this application involved a client-side feature selection analysis of an RNA-seq dataset made available by the Mayo Clinic. The dataset compares the gene expression profiles of subjects with Alzheimer’s Disease, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, and control groups, from two regions of the brain: temporal cortex and cerebellum. Two types of supervised disease-versus-control analysis revealed a collection of discriminatory genes. Moreover, unsupervised techniques proved a tendency of the samples to cluster according to the brain tissue and gender, overriding diagnoses.